Hello Friends
from this video we shall learn binary recursion
we shall learn different binary searche tree operations like
insertion deletion traversal etcetera
But before getting started with binary search operations We need
to understand the binary recursion Because all these
operations uses binary recursion as the tree has left
and right sub trees
So in this video let us discuss about binary
recursion
So before we learn about binary recursion what
is linear recursion We know about recursion
It is a function calling itself And if the function
is only making a single call to itself Each time
the function runs then it is a linear recursion
See this example We have the function fun and
it is calling itself only one time in each function
Execution
So this is an example of linear recursion and one
major example is the factorial function
You must have understood What is binary recursion By
now it is as the names such as a function
making to function calls each time it is called say
this example we have the function fun and each
time
It is called it calls the function a fun
two times again
That is when function a fun of n is
called it calls a fun of n minus one
and a fun of n minus two that is
two times so that is exactly what binary recursion is
The Fibonacci series is one major example of binary
recursion Say this programme for finding the n term In
the Fibonacci series we have the main function and the
function fib first execution begins From here we have in result
equal to fib of four so function fib is called by passing
the value four
So control gets here and n equal to four Now
check if n is less than or equal to one it is
not so
Return fib of n minus one plus Fib of n
minus two that is fib of three plus fib of
two
See Fib of four is called and it is calling fib
of three and fib of two that is binary recursion
So fib is called again by passing three so n
equal to three now and check If n is less than
or equal to 1
But it is not so in else
We have returned fib of n minus one that is
fib of two plus fib of n minus two
That is fib of one again
See when fib of three was called it called Fib
of two and fib of one
Now fib of two will be executed and we have
n equal to two now
So if fails and in else we have returned fib
of one place fib of zero again the here
Fib of two is called and it is calling fib
of one and fib of 0
So control goes to fib of one here n equal
to one
So if returns true and return n which is one
So we got one here now call fib of zero
and hear n equal to 0
So here also if it's true and returns n that
is zero now the Control returns to calling function fib
of two
Here we got return 1 plus 0 which is one return one
to the calling function fib of three
And we got fib of two equal to one
And now we have the second call fib of one
which will also return one
So we got return one plus one which is
two so two will be returned to the calling function
fib of four now we got return two plus fib of
two and as we got fib of two will call
fib of one and fib of zero and fib of
one will return one and fib of zero will return
zero
So 1+0 which is equal to one will be returned
to the calling function fib of four So we got two
plus one which is three which will be returned to the
calling function main
So this is what binary recursion is
Each time the function is called it is calling itself
two types
Similarly we can use binary recursion to manipulate the
left and right sub trees of the binary
search tree recursively In the coming videos
we will learn how to use the binary recursion to insert delete and traverse the binary search tree.